---
title: Overview
page_title: Overview
description: Overview
slug: datagrid-columns-overview
tags: overview
published: True
position: 0
---

# Overview

Generally, there are three strategies to define DataGrid columns:

* **Manually** - by adding columns to the RadDataGrid.Columns collection
* **Automatically** - by setting RadDataGrid.AutoGenerateColumns="True"
* **Mixed** - by adding columns to the RadDataGrid.Columns collection and also set RadDataGrid.AutoGenerateColumns="True"

>The RadDataGrid supports **Column Reordering** by default. You can enable/disable this feature through the 
**RadDataGrid.UserColumnReorderMode** property.

The RadDataGrid control provides the following type of columns:

* [Template Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-templatecolumn%}) - Represents a column that uses a **DataTemplate** to describe the content of each associated grid cell.
* [Boolean Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-booleancolumn%}) - A special DataGridTypedColumn implementation that presents boolean data.
* [Date Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-datecolumn%}) - An extended DataGridTextColumn that presents data of type **DateTime**. The column will create a DataGridDateFilterControl upon trigerring the filtering UI through user input.
* [Image Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-imagecolumn%}) - Represents a concrete DataGridTypedColumn that may present the associated data through Image controls.
* [Numerical Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-numericalcolumn%}) -Represents an extended DataGridTextColumn that presents numerical data. The column will create a DataGridNumericalFilterControl upon trigerring the filtering UI through user input.
* [Text Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-textcolumn%}) - Represents a column that converts the content of each associated cell to a **System.String** object.
* [Time Column]({%slug datagrid-columns-timecolumn%}) -Represents an extended DataGridTextColumn that presents data of type **DateTime**. The column will create a DataGridTimeFilterControl upon trigerring the filtering UI through user input.

>When `RadDataGrid.AutoGenerateColumns="True"` the RadDataGrid generates typed columns depending on the incoming data.

Both types of columns inherit from the *DataGridColumn* class which provides the following properties:

* **CellDecorationStyle** - Gets or sets the Style object that defines the background of each cell associated with this column. The TargetType property of the Style object is Rectangle.
* **CellDecorationStyleSelector** - Gets or sets the StyleSelector instance that allows for dynamic decoration on a per cell basis.
* [Header]({%slug datagrid-columns-howto-setheaderstyle%}) - Gets or sets the content to be displayed in the Header UI that represents the column.
* [HeaderStyle]({%slug datagrid-columns-howto-setheaderstyle%}) - Gets or sets the Style instance that defines the appearance of the DataGridColumnHeader control.
* [SizeMode]({%slug datagrid-columns-howto-setcolumnswidthusingsizemode%}) - Gets or sets the *DataGridColumnSizeMode* value that controls how the column and its associated cells are sized horizontally.
	* Fixed: The column has a fixed width as defined by its Width property.
	* Stretch: The column is stretched to the available width proportionally to its desired width.
	* Auto: The columns is sized to its desired width. That is the maximum desired width of all associated cells.
* [Width]({%slug datagrid-columns-howto-setcolumnswidthusingsizemode%}) - Gets or sets the fixed width for the column. Applicable when the SizeMode property is set to DataGridColumnSizeMode.Fixed.
* **ActualWidth** - Gets the actual width of the column.
* **IsAutoGenerated** - Gets a value indication whether the column is auto-generated internally.
* **SortDirection** - Gets or sets a value that defines the visual state of the SortingDirectionGlyph.
This property is used for visualization purposes only and does not affect the actual sort state of the column. To add sorting
to the column, you have to use a [Sort Descriptor]({%slug datagrid-sorting-overview%}).
* **CanUserEdit** (bool) - Gets or sets a value indicating whether the user can edit the values in this column.
* **CanUserFilter** (bool) - Gets or sets a value indicating whether the user can filter the data by tha values in the column using the built-in filtering UI.
* **CanUserGroup** (bool) - Gets or sets a value indicating whether the user can group the data by tha values in the column using the built-in Grouping UI.
* **CanUserSort** (bool) - Gets or sets a value indicating whether the user can sort the data by the values in the column isong the built-in Sorting UI.
* **CanUserReorder** (bool) - Gets or sets a value indicating whether the user can reorder the column.
* **IsVisible** (bool) - Gets a value indicating if a specific column should be visualized.